The Universal Ballet Company has invited two principal dancers of the American Ballet Theatre (ABT) to star in its upcoming production of ¡°Onegin.¡±

Seo Hee, the first Asian to rise to the top rank at ABT, will be partnered with Italian Roberto Bolle in John Cranko¡¯s signature work. They will highlight two of the seven performances of Onegin at Seoul Arts Center which runs July 6 through July 13.

The Seo-Bolle duo will perform on July 7 and 8.

Since a surprise promotion to principal dancer in July 2012, Seo has enjoyed much press attention here and in the U.S. Last month, the 27-year-old graced the cover of ¡°Dance¡± magazine and The New York Times carried an interview about her adjustment to her new position at the top U.S. ballet company.

¡°I¡¯m at the level of who I looked up to,¡± she told The New York Times. ¡°But I came to a conclusion that I¡¯m in a process of becoming a better dancer ? not exactly a principal dancer, but a better dancer and a better person.¡±

There are 17 principals at the ABT, and Seo is the first Korean dancer in the top rank of one of the world¡¯s foremost ballet troupes since its founding in 1937. She now finds herself in the same rank as star dancers Julie Kent, Diana Vishneva and Polina Semionova. Seo became a member of the corps de ballet in March 2006 and was promoted to soloist in August 2010.

She has had a fulfilling first season as a principal, taking lead roles in ¡°Romeo and Juliet¡± and ¡°A Month in the Country,¡± British choreographer Frederick Ashton¡¯s adaptation of Turgenev¡¯s play. She will also appear in ¡°Swan Lake¡± and ¡°The Sleeping Beauty.¡±

Her forthcoming Seoul performances will give the local audience an opportunity to see her as Tatiana, one of ballet¡¯s most dramatic roles for the first time. She recently performed the role with the ABT at the Lincoln Center in New York. She will arrive in Seoul on July 7 for a two-week stay that includes performances and master classes.

Fellow ABT principal Roberto Bolle will be her partner in Onegin. This is the first time for the Italian dancer to perform in Korea.

Bolle is one of the most celebrated ballerinos of his generation, serving as a principal not only at ABT but also La Scala Theatre Ballet in Milan, Italy.

He has been with the ABT since 2007, when he performed for the first time there as a guest artist on the occasion of the legendary Alessandra Ferri¡¯s farewell performance.

Onegin, set to the music of Tchaikovsky, is the most widely acclaimed creation of South African choreographer John Cranko. It is based on the novel of Alexander Pushkin¡¯s tragic love story ¡°Eugene Onegin.¡±

The Universal Ballet is only the second Asian dance company to stage Onegin, after China¡¯s National Ballet in 2008. This is because the John Cranko Foundation has strict standards about granting rights to perform the work.

The Gangnam Symphony Orchestra will provide the accompaniment. Mikail Granovsky, a conductor at the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow, will conduct the orchestra.

Tickets range from 10,000 to 100,000 won. Each show lasts two hours and 30 minutes, with two intermissions. For more information, visit www.universalballet.com or call 02-540-1300.


Seo Hee headlines ABT principals staging local produciton of 'Onegin'




